# CharacterRecognition
In this project, I am working on character recognition on a digit dataset using MATLAB.The digit dataset consists of 5000 rows of handwritten image of digits in the range of {0, 1, 2, 3 ,4 ,5 ,6 ,7 ,8, 9}. The image of each digit is digitized by 20*20 matrix which adds up to 400 – dimensional vectors. The dataset also has labels set which will help training the algorithm and finding accuracy of it in the end. The programming environment for the project is MATLAB. And, in the process of implementing what is asked, some toolboxes and codes are used for the second and third question which will be mentioned in the following parts. Lastly, some background information is learned to perform some of the tasks like classifying a model with Gaussian distribution.

Calculations and Plots

Principal Components Analysis is required to implement to the 400-dimensional data to lower dimensional subspaces.

The first thing that is done is to shuffle the dataset and labels to distribute them randomly. Then, the shuffled dataset and labels are split into two parts as one of them will be the trainset and the other will be the test set. The splitting is done 2500 by 2500 which will add up to 5000. Then, to implement gaussian model into the training data, mean, std and variance of the trainset is found which is followed by centralizing the train set by extracting the mean of it. Then, the covariance array is found by taking the square of centralized array. From the covariance matrix, eigen vectors and eigen values are found together. Last thing for this part is to order the eigen values and eigen vectors in descending order because we will start choosing them from the large ones. In the following graph, eigen values can be observed in descending order.
